In the beginning, computer science at Otago University was taught from the Computing Services Centre. A separate department was proposed in 1983 and the new Computer Science Department began offering papers in 1984.

See a short history of the department

It currently has fifteen lecturing staff, two honorary lecturers, three Professional Practice Fellows, and seven support staff. The Department until recently was housed in several buildings including the historic Archway West building where the administrative centre resided. The entire Department is now located in the Owheo building, 133 Union Street East.

Our focus has always been great teaching informed by great research. We make a point of providing a supportive environment for learning. Our curriculum closely follows the ACM/IEEE computer science curriculum, and as such our graduates are equal to computer science graduates from the best universities in the world.

The research in the Department covers a diverse range of exciting topics including: computer graphics, computer theory, artificial intelligence (AI), computer vision and pattern recognition, parallel and systems programming, information retrieval and data mining.

In 2008, our Systems Research group became part of a SUN Centre of Excellence - Otago was the first university outside the US to gain such an honour. Our Computer Graphics group has been consistently world class for over two decades resulting in many influential publications and a successful local company (Animation Research Limited). The AI group is developing understanding of how the brain works through it's neural networks, cognitive science and logic research. In an age where all information is online, our Information Retrieval group is busy building better search engines. The Theory group is discovering knowledge about some of the fundamental data structures in computer science, and the Computer Vision group is working on interpreting x-rays for medicine and industry.

We are justifiably proud of the achievements of our students in the finals of the international ACM programming competition: 10th 1988/1989, 1st 1989/1990, 5th 1992/1993, 2nd 1993/1994, 11th equal 1998/1999, 29th equal 2000/2001, 27th equal 2001/2002, 27th equal 2003/2004. Otago was the first non-North American team to win the finals, beating teams from the likes of Harvard and Stanford. Otago remains one of only two southern hemisphere teams to win the competition, and the only team from New Zealand. Some of our graduates have gone on to become stars in the field, working in areas as diverse as making movies at Pixar (Ratatouille, Wall-E, Brave) and Weta, software for NASAs Mars rovers, and making computer games (like Halo).

We are also a community minded department. We regularly contribute to: the scientific community as editors and reviewers; the local community by giving advice to schools; the business community as consultants and giving advice; and the university community on boards and committees.

Our graduates have a bright future. With a chronic shortage of ICT staff and programmers in New Zealand, the number of jobs and salary levels within the industry have been rising. Computer Scientists are among the highest paid graduates of all disciplines, and work in some of the most interesting environments, both technical and business- oriented. You can also check the MBIE's Job Prospects for Software Developers.

For a challenging, interesting, varied, intellectually rewarding, and well paid career, Computer Science is a clear leader.

We hope to see you in our classes in the future.

Musicians have been expressing their sadness and paying tribute to US rapper Mac Miller, who was found dead at his California home on Friday aged 26.
"It's so heartbreaking," singer Ed Sheeran wrote on Instagram, describing the rapper as "such a sweetheart".
Snoop Dogg, Chance the Rapper and Missy Elliott have also shared messages.
Miller, whose real name was Malcolm James McCormick, was often open about his substance abuse and reportedly died from a suspected overdose.
"I'm so saddened to hear about Mac Miller, such a kind spirit," wrote fellow rapper Missy Elliott, adding that she was sending "prayers for strength" to his family.
In a moving tweet, Chance the Rapper said he was "completely broken" after hearing the news and described Miller as "one of the sweetest guys I ever knew".
 Twitter post by @chancetherapper: I dont know what to say Mac Miller took me on my second tour ever. But beyond helping me launch my career he was one of the sweetest guys I ever knew. Great man. I loved him for real. Im completely broken. God bless him.Image Copyright @chancetherapper@CHANCETHERAPPER
Report
Presentational white space
The legendary West Coast rapper Snoop Dogg said that Pittsburgh, the city in Pennsylvania where Miller was born, had "lost a real one".
Skip Twitter post by @SnoopDogg
 

Snoop Dogg
48.8K people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @SnoopDogg
Presentational white space
"Words can't express how much I loved Mac," said the guitarist and producer Thundercat, adding: "If I could have been with him all the time I would have, happy for the time we spent together. I will always celebrate his life."
Skip Twitter post by @Thundercat
View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter

 I’m gonna miss you Forreal Mac. One of the realest
12:11 AM - Sep 8, 2018
13.6K
2,121 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @Thundercat
Presentational white space
Others in the industry to pay tribute include the singer and producer Pharrell Williams, the rapper Wiz Khalifa, singer Solange Knowles and singer-songwriter Khalid, who said the news "hurts my heart".
Skip Twitter post by @thegreatkhalid
View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter

Khalid
@thegreatkhalid
 love you bro
9:16 PM - Sep 7, 2018
68.3K
8,654 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @thegreatkhalid
Presentational white space
Skip Twitter post by @solangeknowles

solange knowles
@solangeknowles
 Rest in your peace Mac Miller. 
Always exuded so much kindness and goodness.  
Thank you for sharing your gifts with us all.
9:11 PM - Sep 7, 2018
43.4K
8,859 people are talking about this
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @solangeknowles
Presentational white space
Skip Instagram post by pharrell
Report
End of Instagram post by pharrell
Presentational white space
Miller rose to fame after topping US charts with his debut album in 2011. He released his latest record, Swimming, earlier this year and was due to go on tour.
The rapper went through a well-publicised break-up with singer and girlfriend Ariana Grande earlier this year.
The pair, who met in 2012, collaborated on a number of songs and performed together at the One Love Manchester concert in 2017.
Charges were filed against Miller last month after he was arrested in May for driving under the influence and hit and run.
Grande spoke out publicly about ending their "toxic relationship" after fans blamed her for his arrest.
Grande and Mac Miller on stage performingImage copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
Grande suspended comments on her Instagram account on Friday shortly after Miller's death
"I am not a babysitter or a mother and no woman should feel that they need to be," she said in a typed message posted on social media.
Grande said she had "tried to support his sobriety" for years, and was praying that he "figures it all out".
An early beginning
Born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Miller began to focus on his music while still at school and released his first mixtape under the name EZ Mac at just 15.
Maturing in the public eye, he starred in a MTV reality series in 2013 which followed him and a group of friends after he moved to Los Angeles to pursue his career.
He released a series of albums and EPs across the last decade, collaborating with high-profile artists like Pharrell Williams and Kendrick Lamar.
In his final tweets posted on Thursday, the rapper promoted the North American tour he was set to embark on next month.
He was "a bright light in this world for his family, friends and fans." his family said, in a statement confirming his death.
presentational grey line
'Mac Miller could do it all'
Analysis by BBC Music Reporter Mark Savage
A lot of rappers don't make beats. A lot of beat-makers can't rap. Mac Miller could do it all, lending an uncommon intimacy to his best songs.
He started piano lessons at the age of six, later picking up drums, bass and keyboards. By the age of 15, he'd released his first mixtape, But My Mackin' Ain't Easy, but it was his fourth release, 2010's KIDS, a playful, freewheeling collection of party tunes, that won him a recording contract.
Over the years, he shed his frivolous, frat-boy reputation, making increasingly mature, introspective records that dealt with his personal demons; as well as 2016's The Divine Feminine, a naive but affecting (and occasionally too-graphic) concept album about what he called "the feminine energy of the planet," but which many took to be a tribute to his partner, Ariana Grande.
DJ Mac Miller performs live on stage at 2018 LollapaloozaImage copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
The rapper had more than eight million followers on Twitter
In music, and in his interviews, he was open about his addictions - which eventually prompted Grande to end their relationship, describing it as a "toxic relationship". But Miller refused to exploit their break-up on his latest album, Swimming. "Everybody wants a headline / I don't got nothin' to say," he rapped on Programs, released in May, just weeks after their split was confirmed.
Instead, the album documented his ongoing struggles with substance abuse. "Got my head underwater, but I ain't in the shower, and I ain't getting baptised," he confessed on Jet Fuel. The halting vocals and fractured, subdued production made it clear he was suffering but there was always a sense of optimism - a promise that those demons could be beaten.
Tragically, it appears he lost the battle.
